# Tacklog
#### Video Demo:  <URL HERE>
#### Description:
The idea for my  final project started small, and quickly ballooned. If I have learned one non-technical thing from this project, it's the importance of defining the scope of a project and sticking to those guidelines.

Originally my idea was to create an algorithm that would help people get through their backlog of unplayed video games by recommending a next game for them to play. The recommendation would be based off the games the person had played recently. For example, if they previously played a long game, this algorithm would recommend a short game from their backlog; if they recently played a horror game, maybe it would recommend a puzzle game.

What I failed to consider at the outset was that this would require a system to track and manage users' backlogs for the algorithm to use. Once I started building the backlog management system, I realised that this was a big enough task in itself.

So the project that I'm submitting is a video game backlog management tool, which will be the basis for the recommendation engine that I hope to build in the future.

The project is built on the Django framework and sources most if its data from IGDB.com, a database site that stores information about video games, via an API. 

I used Django's native [user authentication system](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/auth/) and built one Django app (called "games") that handles searching for games from IGDB, adding games to users' backlogs, and marking a status ("backlog","playing", or "completed") along with the associated dates of each.

When a user adds a game to their backlog, I record the IGDB game ID in a Django model, associated with the user ID. When the user then visits their "My Games" page, I ping the IGDB API to retrieve the metadata associated with each game (ie. name, release date, cover art, etc.).

For the front end I used Bootstrap (v5.3.0) with some minor customisations, such as the overlay that appears when you hover your mouse over a currently-playing game.

And for hosting I used AWS: EC2 for my database and Elastic Beanstalk for the site. I purchased an SSL certificate from my domain registrar, Namecheap, and once approved, uploaded that to AWS's Certificate Manager.

At one point during its development, I decided I needed to re-write the Django logic in the [views.py](https://github.com/jshhnsn/tacklog/blob/main/games/views.py) file. This was because I didn't _really_ plan the functionality out before starting, and I found myself in a situation where I was repeating certain lines of code in several places. This was the functionality for adding, removing, and modifying the games in a user's backlog. This functionality existed in several different places across the site, and I had it implemented separately in each place. So, I re-wrote the code to standardise this functionality in a separate function that I called from each of these places.

Lastly, the text and images on the site were generated by ChatGPT and DALL-E. I put this task off until the very end, but the advancements in AI made this part a breeze.